[[MESSAGE_System]]

The WSJT-X Message System can be used to invite your QSO partner to
move to another band or mode (for example, during a contest), or to
convey some short canned messages. There are two main parts, the
*Message Creator* and the *QSY Monitor*.  Received messages are
displayed in popup windows.

=== Message Creator

Use the Message Creator to create and send these special messages with
just a few clicks. When using this feature for the first time, make
sure that your IARU Region has been set on the *File | Settings |
General* tab:

image::mc1.png[align="center",alt="IARU Region"]

The *Message Creator* window is activated from the *View* menu:

image::mc2.png[align="center",alt="View Menu"]

Four tabs are available: HF, VHF, EME and General. 

image::mc3.png[align="center",alt="Creator Tabs"]

To send a message, select the appropriate tab and then the band,
mode, and kHz part of frequency for a QSY request, or a canned message
from the *General* tab. The actual message to be sent will be shown in
the field indicated by the red arrow. Click *Send Message* to have
this message conveyed in your next transmission. *Enable Tx* will be
activated automatically, and your message will be sent to the callsign
in the *DX Call* field of the main window.  The example below shows
the creation of a messsage to W3SZ asking him to QSY to 145.550 using
FM.

image::mc4.png[align="center",alt="Creator window"]

=== Receiving Message System transmissions

To receive these special messages, select *Enable Message Popups* on the 
*View* menu:

image::mc5.png[align="center",alt="Enable Pop Ups"]

A screenshot showing the example message sent to W3SZ is shown
below. As recipient, W3SZ can click *Reply Yes* or *Reply No*, and his
reply message will be sent in the next Tx interval to the callsign
present in the recipient's DX callsign box.

image::mc6.png[align="center",alt="Received message"]

TIP: After use, the Message System text remains in the Tx 6 field.  Tx
6 can be reset to the standard CQ message by clicking the *Generate
Std Msgs* button.

=== QSY Monitor

You can view messages sent to other stations, as well as to yourself.
To do so, check *QSY Monitor* on the View menu. An example showing a
number of received messages is shown below.

image::mc7.png[align="center",alt="QSY Monitor"]
